has acquired one of the world's largest collections of photographs and visual images.
It was announced yesterday that Corbis Corporation, which Gates owns, has paid an undisclosed amount of money for the Bettman Archive, a collection of some 16 million pictures.
Corbis plans to digitize the images so that they can be made available over computer networks.
The Bettman archive includes some of America's most widely recognized photographs of everything from Civil War battlefields to Marilyn Monroe.
The huge collection was sold to Gates' company by the Krauss organization, which had bought it from its founder.
Otto Bettman started it back in the 1930s, after he fled the Nazis and came to the United States with a trunk full of old photographs.
Now, at age 92, Otto Bettman lives in Florida.
He published a book this year about his other pageant, the music of Johann Sebastian Bach, and he says that he is happy that the archive that bears his name is making the transition to the computer age.
I'm quite delighted that an archive that always conjures a picture of oldness, of archaeology,
has now made the step into the 21st century.
Could you take us back to the 1930s and how the idea of the Bedman Photo Archive came to be?
I started really in Berlin.
I mean, I was fired from the museum in Berlin, Kaiser Friedrich.
I was looking for a livelihood, and I had a small collection of subject pictures, which I expanded.
I arrived in New York in 1935 with two big steamer full of pictures.
I hardly thought I could make a living from this material.
It was more of an avocation.
But I found very, very help among advertising agencies, publisher, textbook people.
It was the beginning of the
visual age.
Time started, life, Look magazine, nothing, and it was very hospitably welcomed.
Now that Mr. Gates owns the archive, I'm just wondering, are there a few photographs or a couple which you in particular think he's got enough, that it's wonderful that he should be the owner of those in particular?
Do a couple come to mind right away that are favorites?
Well, there's one of my favorite pictures, a picture of the first radio station, which really put me into business.
It was designed by a 17th-century monk by the name of Athanasius Kershaw.
That really put me in business for NBC,
President Dr. Stanton saw this picture, and he made a big spread in the Fortune magazine out of it, and gets the Batman-Betman archive credits.
Now, wait a minute, on the map.
Now, did you say that the first radio station was designed by a... By the 17th century.
It was, of course, a prediction, simply...
an idea how South Christ's mission would work in the future.
And other people came, well, tell me the beginning of shavings, tell me the beginning of fashions, tell me the beginning of medical things.
I'm just curious, when someone would ask you, now that we've seen a picture of the very
origin of the idea of radio in the 17th century, could you find the origins of shaving?
How would you go about finding images of that?
How would you know everywhere to find a picture that told us something about shaving?
Well, I go to hundreds of books, and you, when you're a picture searcher, you develop some sort of a sixth sense where to go, which is a field that
Americans, who are really people of the future, have a great interest in how things came about.
So I, once a pharmaceutical manufacturer, asked me what I have in the history of sleeping, and we have a whole file of pictures of how people were put asleep.
perhaps sit over the head, or it's a very touching picture that shows a famous prince hiring a violinist, and he simply puts him to sleep.
As a matter of fact, Bachs Gutberg, where he is, was ordered from Bach by a certain Count Kaisernin,
so that his servant and court musician, Mr. Goldberg, could play these melodies when his lord could not sleep.
Well, I'm glad that you brought Bach into this, because I wanted to ask you just to conclude if there's any particular work of Bach that comes to mind on the occasion
of the sale of the Bettman archives that we might play at this moment and would be appropriate.
Well, I think that Bach has created Superbach, Bach and Subbach.
Not everything that Bach wrote was so eminently useful.
There were many technical things that
we have no relation to, but if I'm asked what the greatest work of Bach is, I would say it's St.
Matthew Passion.
The St.
Matthew Passion?
Yes.
It is simply superhuman.
And I sung in the Boys Chorus when I was six, and I'm still fascinated with it, as I'm admittedly 92.
So that's a pretty good record for Herr Bach.
I should say so.
Well, Dr. Bettman, thank you very much for talking.
Thank you.
Otto Bettman actually turns 92 on Sunday.
He's the founder of the Bettman Archive of Visual Images, and he spoke to us from radio station WEAT in West Palm Beach, Florida.
I'm going to put him in my next book.
October 11, 1995, interview on NPR with Otto Bedman.
O.J.
Simpson backs out of a televised interview.